---
layout: post
title:  "0.4.0-alpha Release"
date:   2016-12-10
categories: blog
---

**Note: The recommended way to use Haxegon is to install it via haxelib:**

`haxelib install haxegon`

0.4.0-alpha (2016-12-10)
------------------
### New features
* Thanks to new updates to both OpenFL and Starling, Haxegon now works on HTML5! Native targets will come later, and HTML5 should improve as time goes on. My intention is for HTML5 to eventually be the lead target.
* Added `Gfx.fullscreen` boolean. Set to **true** or **false** anywhere to toggle fullscreen!
* `Gfx.resizescreen()` no longer takes a *scale* parameter - the canvas now automatically scales to fit the current window.
* Added two new examples to the <a href="https://github.com/TerryCavanagh/haxegon-samples">haxegon-samples</a> repo: **Music and Sounds**, and **Scene Change**.
* Moved color functions from `Gfx.hx` to `Col.hx`, where they seem to make more sense: 
  
  ``` haxe
  Col.rgb(red [0-255], green [0-255], blue [0-255]);
  Col.getred(col);
  Col.getgreen(col);
  Col.getblue(col);
  
  Col.hsl(hue [0-360], saturation [0-1.0], lightness [0-1.0]);
  Col.gethue(col);
  Col.getsaturation(col);
  Col.getlightness(col);
  ```
* Added some new string manipulation functions to `S.hx`:

  ``` haxe
  S.join(array, separator); //Returns a single string of the elements of array joined together
  S.seperate(array, delimiter); //Returns an array of strings, split by the given delimiter.
  S.asciicode(character); //Returns the ASCII value of the character.
  S.fromascii(ascii code); //Converts an ascii code to a string. E.g. fromascii(65) == "A"
  ```
  
### Bug fixes/Tweaks
* New **blankproject.zip** - `startfullscreen` has been removed from project.xml. You shouldn't need to update unless your project folder is older than 0.3. (if you want to start in fullscreen now, just set `Gfx.fullscreen = true;` in your Main.new() function.)
* Fixed crash if you resized the window.
* Fixed crash if calling drawing functions in `Main.new()`.
* Speed up to drawing to surfaces other than the screen.
* Fix to .OGG loading on HTML5.
* Cleaned up some old hashdefines, and general library cleanup. Deleted haxegon/util folder.