---
layout: post
title:  "0.13.0 Release"
date:   2018-09-04
categories: blog
---

**Note: The recommended way to use Haxegon is to install it via haxelib:**

`haxelib install haxegon`

0.13.0 (2018-09-04)
------------------

### About version 0.13.0

Haxegon hasn't worked with the most recent versions of OpenFL for a couple of months now, so I decided to release this version to get things back up and running. Originally the idea was that this version would focus on documentation, but that's been pushed back. A lot of the changes in this version are advanced features added for OVERWHELM, and for my current project Dicey Dungeons - though there are plenty of other fixes and improvements that will benefit everyone who uses the library!

### New features
  * This version brings support for the latest versions of OpenFL (8.4.1), Lime (7.0.0) and Starling (2.4.1).
  * Added `Core.enablescreen`, which allows you to turn off the Haxegon screen completely. Useful if you just want to use Starling display objects directly!
  * Added `Core.imagesmoothing` - when true, uses bilinear smoothing when displaying images. `false` by default.
  * Better, faster Starling Mesh batching. (thanks, @randomnine!)
  * Optimisations to `Gfx.drawsubimage()`. (thanks, @randomnine!)
  * Added `Gfx.drawellipse()` and `Gfx.fillellipse()`.
  * Added support for paths with `../` in `Data.load` functions.
  * Added `Core.mobilebrowser()`, which returns true if the application is being played in a browser on a mobile device.
  * Added default parameters to `Save.loadvalue` - e.g. `var musicVolume = Save.loadvalue("MusicVolume", .5);`. (thanks @increpare!)
  
### Bug fixes/Tweaks
  * Updated Starling to v2.4.1.
  * Fixed a bug where `Text.width()` wasn't giving reliable values for bitmap fonts.
  * Supress default backspace key behaviour on HTML5. (It usually acts like a "back" button in browsers, which you probably don't want)
  * Added `Gfx.unloadimage()`. (Unloads an image, freeing up its resources.)
  * Support for higher resolution TTF fonts with `Text.setfont()`.
  * Added `Debug.limitdrawcalls` for display list debugging.
  * Fixed mouse deltas on touch controls.
  * Fixed `Gfx.clearscreen(Col.TRANSPARENT)` - it now works as expected on all platforms.
  * Fixed a memory leak with `Text.display()`.
  * Fixed HTML5 Fullscreen button controls.
  * Fixed `Music.currentposition`.
  * Fixed autocomplete issues in HaxeDevelop with `Text.display()`.